---
title: Game Zone writeup - TryHackMe
date: 2022-08-15
categories: [TryHackMe, Challenge]
tags: [tryhackme, web, ssh]
---

Fourth challenge of the Advanced Exploitation module called Game Zome.

On the introduction of the challenge we can read that we will use some SQL injection manually then using SQLMap. We will do some password cracking, manipulating SSH tunnels to reveal a hidden service and use Metasploit to gain root privileges.

First thing to do: deploy the machine.
For the rest of this writeup I will say that the IP adress of the machine is `10.10.10.1`.

# Task #1 - Deploy the vulnerable machine
Now the machine is online we can start doing some port enumeration with _nmap_.

We will do a basic scan like: 

````bash
nmap -sC -sV -vv 10.10.10.1
````

Little explanation of the options :
-sC
: explanation

-sV
: stands for Service Version

-vv
: enable all the verbose output

After few minutes we can see two interesting running services :
* Port 80 : http server named 'Game Zone'
* Port 22 : ssh OpenSSH 7.2p2

Let's see the web server first.

````bash
firefox http://10.10.10.1:80 & 
````

We can easily identify Hitman on the landing page but I don't kow his real name. After googling it :

> What is the name of the large cartoon avatar holding a sniper on the forum? 
> 
> __agent 47__
{: .prompt-tip }

# Task #2 - Obtain access via SQLi
SQL is a standard language for storing, editing and retrieving data in databases. A query can look like so:

``SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = my_password AND password = my_password``

Because we don't have a valid username/password pair we will try to bybass the authentication form using SQL injection.

In the login field I write ``username = ' or 1=1 -- -``

Instead of giving a username and a password to the form I simply escape the username input using the `'` because strings are always stored between `' '` or `" "`. Then I add the condition or 1=1 and comment all the rest of the query.

In simple words it will say to the database "If 1=1 the user is authenticated". 

> When you've logged in, what page do you get redirected to?
> 
> __portal.php__
{: .prompt-tip }

# Task #3 - Using SQLMap
We will use SQLMap to dump all the database info.
We first have to capture a request within Burp of the search bar in portal.php

You can put anything you want in the search bar and intercept the request.
Copy all the raw body in a text file (req.txt for exemple). To make it works I had to remove all the blank lines of the file except the one before __searchitem__ (the last line)

Now we can use SQLMap like this

````bash
sqlmap -r req.txt --dbms=mysql --dump
````

Where:
--r
: specifies a file containin the request

Here it's said that the dbms (Database Management System) is MySQL but in real cases we would have to do some enumeration to identify it.

> How to identify which DBMS is used ?
>
> __Look at my post on SQL injection !__
{: .prompt-info }

Now we have to wait a moment for SQLMap to finish. If asked to extend the tests for MySQL answer ``Y``. If asked anything else you can answer ``y``.

When SQLMap finished we can see 2 tables in the database : __users__ and __post__.
In users SQLMap found just one entry and gave us the hashed password and the username related.

> In the users table, what is the hashed password?
>
> __If you followed the steps it should appears on your screen when SQLMap ends.__
{: .prompt-tip }

> What was the username associated with the hashed password?
>
> __agent47__
{: .prompt-tip }

>What was the other table name?
>
> __post__
{: .prompt-tip }

# Task #4 - Cracking a password with JohnTheRipper
Now that we have a username and a hashed password we can try to crack the hash to reveal it.
for This we will use John The Ripper a 15y old very famous cracking program.

The basic command is the following :

````bash
john @hash --wordlist=@wordlist --format=@format
````

- @hash
: the file containing the hash(es) (hash.txt for exemple)
- @wordlist
: the worlist (rockyou.txt for exemple)
- @format
: the hash(es) type (like ??? for exemple)

>To list all the supported formats by john you can use the following command:
>
> ``john --list format``
{: .prompt-info }

Before using john we first have to identify the hashtype of the discovered hash.
For this there are many websites which can help you finding the type.
- Hash Analyzer - TunnelsUP

After finding the good hash format we can now launch _john_.

In few seconds we obtain the password.

>What is the de-hashed password?
>
> __if you followed the previous steps _john_ should give it to you very quickly__
{: .prompt-tip }

We can now try to log into the machine using ssh (because we found ssh running in our nmap scan)

````bash
ssh agent47@10.10.10.1
````

>What is the user flag?
>
> __Just ``ls`` and the flag is there.__
{: .prompt-tip }

# Task #5 - Exposing services with reverse SSH tunnels
Using ``ss -tulpn`` on the victim machine we can identify a service running on port 10000 but can't be accessed from outside because blocked by a firewall.
We will use a ssh tunnel from our mmachine to redirect the traffic of the blocked service to our localhost interface. Thus we will be able to see and interact with the blocked content.

````bash
ssh -L 10000:localhost:10000 agent47@10.10.10.1
firefox localhost:10000 &
````

If it works we should arrive to a login page.

After inspecting the page, nothing is really noticable.

I tried admin:admin in the login form but it failed.
Then I looked for the default creds of the identified CMS and they said it's the root user (thus the user we are logged in with ssh).
it worked
Now I have the CMS version

# Tasks #6 - Privilege escalation with Metasploit
using searchsploit
````bash
searchsploit "webmin 1.580"
````
I find one Metasploit exploit. I always try to understand what the playload is supposed to do to the target. In the exploit I found everything was clearly explained and the steps were simple so I decided to do it by hand.

...